[Music]
good morning everybody welcome to
breakfast with rachel burden and john
kay
and here are our headlines today care
home residents in
england will be allowed one regular
visitor from early next month
they can hold hands but they can't hug
nasa releases more remarkable images of
mars
taken from its perseverance rover
reality star kim kardashian is reported
to have filed for divorce from rapper
kanye west
good morning bournemouth say their
players are to stop taking the knee
part of a growing group who feel the
anti-racism gesture before matches
has lost some of its meaning and
effectiveness
well it's a real mixed bag on the
weather front this weekend
for some of us it actually means heavy
rain and a lot of it
for example in southern wales but
there'll be some sunshine
and mild weather around as well
[Music]
good morning it's saturday the 20th of
february thanks for being with us this
morning care home residents
in england will be allowed to pick one
person to visit them regularly from the
8th of march
they'll be able to meet indoors they'll
be able to hold hands but visitors must
still wear
ppe and be tested before entering the
home it's all part of the prime
minister's plan to begin
easing lockdown we can hear a lot more
about that over the next few days our
health correspondent laura foster
explains when england went back into
lockdown at the beginning of january
the doors to care homes were closed to
visitors unless
circumstances were exceptional a way of
protecting
residents from the rising number of
cases and the added threat of the new
variant
but now nearly 17 million people have
had their first covet jab
including 95 percent of people living in
care homes in england
so from the 8th of march they'll each
get to choose one person who can visit
them indoors
but there are some rules it has to be
the same visitor
every time they can hold hands but they
cannot get too close to each other the
visitor must test negative before
entering the home
and they must wear ppe while inside
i think it's a step forward it's
something that we need to proceed with
caution
and ensure that we can make this happen
safely for the people coming into our
services to visit their loved ones and
also for
the loved ones in our services and our
staff so
um there's detail to be worked out but
definitely a step in the right direction
the government says it will provide the
lateral flow tests and ppe
so it won't cost residents or visitors
any money
but these changes are for england only
in scotland visitors will still
only be allowed indoors if it's
essential while in northern ireland and
wales
the advice varies between individual
homes
more details of the prime minister's
plan to ease lockdown restrictions in
england
will be announced on monday laura foster
bbc news
well let's speak to our political
correspondent jessica barker jess so
this is really the first
confirmation of any move in lockdown
restrictions do we know
anything more about what the prime
minister might say on monday yeah i mean
i think you're
right in terms of apart from the fact we
knew that they wanted to get schools
back
from march the 8th this is new
information in terms of allowing these
limited
care home visitors from the same date as
well and some might see this is a sign
of
some optimism from the government but as
laura's reporting there are very strict
rules around those visits and of course
it comes after
the majority of care home residents has
of course had the first dose of the
vaccine
in terms of what else we know will what
we're expecting to hear on monday
are some dates but they will be
indicative dates the
earliest time by which a measure can be
lifted
in the future and the government saying
it reserves the right to change its mind
depending
on the data there have been reports you
guys might have seen about the idea
of two households being able to mix
outdoors by easter we haven't had
official confirmation of that yet but we
do understand downing street
is keen to look at ways to see families
reunited so some sort of outdoor mixing
following the reopening of schools does
look
likely to follow but the emphasis again
is lots of caution and then of course
what we've heard about before is the
idea that you could
later than that see non-essential shops
reopen and then at some point after that
hospitality but not long now to wait
until we find out some further details
but of course what boris johnson has
repeated over recent weeks is that he
doesn't want to lift any restrictions
only to have to reimpose them again and
that's one reason
why the government says it's being so
cautious okay we wait to see many thanks
jessica
the duke of edinburgh is expected to
stay in hospital over the weekend
and into next week for more observation
and rest
prince philip who turns 100 in june was
admitted to the king edward the seventh
hospital on tuesday evening after
feeling unwell
he walk it walked unaided into the
medical center
he said to be in good spirits
nasa has released new images from mars
taken by its rover
perseverance which landed on the red
planet on thursday
yes hope this craft is going to find
microscopic signs of ancient life
dating back billions of years and then
beam back the images to us
our health got us and our health across
our science correspondent rebecca morel
has been looking at the latest pictures
nasa's perseverance rover being lowered
to the surface of mars
an image taken from above two meters
away from touchdown
that image and the details
therein really pull us humans here on
earth
into the result of all of that hard work
you are brought into the surface of mars
you're sitting there
on the upper left of the image in the
lower right of the image you can see
these little dust plumes in that
on the surface of mars uh kicked up by
our engines
and here's one of the landing site the
shadow of perseverance is clearly
visible
and this close-up of its wheel is
intriguing the team
we'll be looking forward in the coming
weeks and months as our instruments get
checked out
to look closer at these rocks by the the
edge of the wheel is a rock and one of
the first things we noticed
was that it has a lot of holes or bugs
in it
and so the science team is now thinking
about what this might mean
it's the start of the rover's two-year
mission and its main objective is to
search for signs of life
perseverance is in an area called the
jezreel crater
it was once a huge lake you can see the
river
flowing into it and out of it and this
purple area is a beautifully preserved
river delta
where microorganisms could once have
lived
the rover survived a perilous descent
traveling at the speed of a bullet
before a supersonic parachute helped it
to the ground
over the next few days the rover's
instruments will be switched on
and many more images will start to come
back including a video of its descent
then perseverance will be ready to start
investigating its new home
rebecca morel bbc news i'd say i've been
loving that footage the last couple of
days it's just captivating yeah
it's just what we need isn't it uh seven
minutes past eight uh they've probably
heard of this next couple
on mars they've certainly heard about
them all over the world but it seems the
seven year marriage of kim kardashian
and kanye west
is over the reality tv star is reported
to have filed for divorce from her
rapper husband david willis reports from
los angeles and his report contains some
flashing images
it was a made-for-tv marriage the rapper
and the reality star the union of two
people
uniquely gifted in the art of
self-promotion
kim kardashian west both destined to
strike an improbable alliance with
another star of reality television
although politics was it's thought just
one source of disagreement
she a democrat i love this guy right
here
he an increasingly vocal conservative
seen here sporting a make america great
again hat in the oval office
before going on to announce an ill-fated
run for president
that led in july last year to a barrage
of worrisome tweets
including one in which kanye west
likened his mother-in-law
to the north korean dictator kim jong-un
and even accused her family of trying to
lock him up
you know it's being reported that kim
had been over the marriage for a long
time
but she felt that last year was not the
right time
to file for divorce because kanye in her
mind and
in that of a lot of the public was
struggling
both are said to be worth more than a
billion dollars he through music
and fashion lines she is a tv star and
entrepreneur
it's thought the couple has a
pre-nuptial agreement which neither side
plans to contest
neither side has commented on the
divorce but kim kardashian is expected
to discuss it later this year
where else than on her own reality tv
show
david wallis bbc news los angeles
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest
with bbc news